[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: So
because arrays and
objects are actually made of the same
thing in this language, there's confusion,
because, in some ways, they're
interchangeable, in others, they're not.
So most of the time, you can use one for
the other, and get away with it.
But eventually, it'll catch up with you.
So I recommend, use objects when the names
of the properties are arbitrary strings,
and use arrays when the names
are sequential integers.
Don't be confused by
the term associative array.
In JavaScript, the associative
array is object, not array.
>> Douglas Crockford: JavaScript has
a Date function which was modeled after
Java's Date class,
which was not Y2K ready.
Java was published in 1995.
I guess they didn't see
the millennium coming.
Fortunately, we survived it.
Hooray.
We have regular expressions,
which are a pattern-matching mechanism.
That is a regular expression that
matches regular expressions.
At least I claim it is.
I hate regular expressions.
This notation is so
appallingly hard to read.
And we use it for input validation.
And how can you have any confidence that
it matches what we think it matches?
Cuz it's such a horrible notation.
There are other languages that have
pattern matching languages which
are really quite elegant,
and expressive, and nice.
We don't have one of those.
We have the industry standard.
This is another thing
that Ken Thompson did.
Not Thompson's best idea.
He had some other things
that were truly brilliant.
Regular expressions work really well
if they're an inch or two long.
If they get longer than that,
they're horrible.
And I have to confess,
I've written regular expressions
that are a couple of feet long.
And I'm not proud of that.
Yeah, so we have functions.
Most of today,
the rest of the day is gonna be about
functions, but we'll get to them later.
So all the values we talked
about up until now are objects.
There are only two values in
JavaScript that are not objects, and
they are null and undefined.
Null is the value that isn't anything,
so if you want put something in
a variable just indicating that there
is nothing there, you can say null.
And then undefined is the value
that isn't even that.
Undefined is the value for
variables and parameters.
If you declare a variable,
but don't initialize it,
its default value will be undefined.
Which is a little confusing,
because you define it, but
it's undefined at the same time.
Undefined wasn't the best name for this.
If you ask for
a property from an object, and
the object doesn't have one and does not
inherit one, then it returns undefined.
One thing that's confusing is that
you can store undefined in an object.
So if you retrieve the value undefined
from an object, you don't know if it meant
that property was missing, or if it meant
that property had the value of undefined.
So for that reason, I recommend,
don't store undefined into things,
because it's confusing.
I think it should have caused the element
to be deleted, but it doesn't do that.
JavaScript has a typeof operator,
which allows you to take a value and
determine what type it is, and returns
the string with the name of the type.
So if you ask, is this an object, it
returns object, and so on, which is good.
If you pass an array, it returns object,
which is maybe technically right,
because everything is an object,
but it's not helpful.
It doesn't tell you that this is an array,
which has different properties.
But the worst one is null.
The typeof null is object,
which is just wrong.
And the way that happened was,
Brendan used typed pointers
in his first implementation.
So, the first few bits of a pointer would
indicate what the thing was pointing to.
And he used zero in that bit pattern
to represent object, zero for object.
But he also used zero, all zero as null,
because he does that, for good or bad.
And he didn't notice that that
zero conflicted with that one, and
so typeof was producing the wrong result,
but Microsoft did.
So when they reverse engineering to create
JScript, they said, okay, that's it, and
when they had a chance to fix it at ECMA,
they said no damn it, cuz that
would break programs, Microsoft is opposed
to ever breaking programs, yeah, right.
[LAUGH] You sound like
a Microsoft developer.
Yeah, so it's wrong.
So it turns out it's not hard to test for
null.
You can just say,
if null triple equal null.
That does a null check.
But typing for object is surprisingly
hard, because you get this false positive.
ES5 added Array.isArray, so we can now
reliably tell if something's an array.
That's good.
And it turned out we also discovered
a polyfill, so that we can get definition
of that on ES6, and everything before ES9.
JavaScript has values that
are called the falsy values.
These are false null, undefined, the empty
string, the number zero, and NaN.
Any of these values in the condition
part of an if statement
will cause you to take the false branch.
Any other value is considered truthy,
and would take the true branch.
So an empty object,
an empty array is truthy,
the string zero is truthy,
the string false is truthy.
The only falsy values are false,
null, undefined,
empty string, zero, and NaN, okay.
JavaScript is a loosely typed language,
meaning that you can take any value of
any type and stick it in any variable,
or pass it in any position, or
put it anywhere in any object.
The language is not untyped.
As you've seen,
we have a lot of types in this language.
But it's just very loose
in how you can use them.
Objects in this language
are passed by reference.
Objects are never copied.
And the triple equal operator compares two
values to ask, are they the same object.
It doesn't ask, are they the same,
are they similar values.
>> Douglas Crockford: So,
A triple equal B is only true if
both values point to the same object.